What is Git Reset?
git reset is used to move the current branch pointer to a different commit. It changes the history and can optionally modify your working directory and staging area.

It's like "rewinding" to a previous commit — optionally keeping or deleting your changes.

There are 3 types of git reset:
Type	Command Example	What It Does
--soft	git reset --soft HEAD~1	Moves HEAD to earlier commit, keeps staged & working directory files
--mixed	git reset --mixed HEAD~1	(default) Removes staging, keeps working directory files
--hard	git reset --hard HEAD~1	Moves HEAD and deletes all changes since that commit
What is Git Revert?
git revert is a safer way to undo changes. It creates a new commit that undoes the effects of a previous commit — preserving history.

It's like "adding an anti-commit" to reverse a change without hiding that it happened.

Example:
git revert HEAD
This undoes the last commit and adds a new one that reverses the change.

Summary Table
Action	Use reset When...	Use revert When...
Keep history	❌ (reset rewrites history)	✅ (revert keeps history)
Safe to undo	Only if local, not shared	Yes, safe for public/shared branches
Typical use	Remove bad commits/branches locally	Undo wrong commits in shared or main branches
Sarah's Git Story (With Examples)
Task 1: Sarah adds author names to stories
This would be done like any edit + commit:
# Edit each story file to add author name
git add .
git commit -m "Added author information to all stories"
Task 2: Publisher says remove author info — changes must be undone, but history should be preserved
Use git revert:
git revert HEAD  # or git revert HEAD~0, same as latest commit
This adds a new commit that undoes what Sarah did in the last commit.

You can also revert any older commit:
git log --oneline
git revert <commit-id>
What if Sarah wants to undo the commit but keep her changes unstaged?
Use --soft reset:
git reset --soft HEAD~1
This will:

Move HEAD back by 1 commit

Keep changes in staging

NOT lose any work

Task 3: Sarah hates her latest version and wants to completely remove the last 3 commits and their changes — like it never happened.
Use --hard reset:
git reset --hard HEAD~3
Warning: This deletes:

The last 3 commits

All file changes made in those commits

Not recoverable unless you backed up or pushed somewhere

Additional Tips
How to find a commit like "Finish hare-and-tortoise story"?
git log --oneline
Look for:
a1b2c3d Finish hare-and-tortoise story
Then reset to that:
git reset --hard a1b2c3d
What flag of git reset retains changes?
--soft

It’s the safest option if you want to remove the commit but keep changes for editing.

Summary of Commands:
Scenario	Command
Revert latest commit (preserve history)	git revert HEAD
Revert specific commit	git revert <commit-id>
Undo last commit, keep changes	git reset --soft HEAD~1
Undo all changes and commits completely	git reset --hard HEAD~3
View commit history	git log --oneline