What is git fetch?
git fetch downloads changes from a remote repository to your local machine, but does NOT merge them automatically into your current branch.

Example:
git fetch origin master
This downloads the latest commits from the remote master branch to a local tracking branch called origin/master.

Your working branch (like local master) does not change yet.

Think of git fetch as "check what's new, but don't apply it yet."

What is git pull?
git pull is a combination of:

git fetch → gets the latest changes

git merge → merges them into your current branch

Example:
git pull origin master
Downloads latest code from origin/master

Merges it into your current local branch

Think of git pull as "get the latest code and apply it to my branch."

What is git merge?
git merge combines the changes from one branch into your current branch.

Example:
git merge origin/master
This will merge the remote tracking branch origin/master into your current local branch.

Use it after you’ve done git fetch.

Difference between git fetch, git pull, and git merge
Command	Does it download remote changes?	Does it apply the changes to current branch?	Use Case
git fetch	✅ Yes	❌ No	When you want to preview or inspect updates first
git pull	✅ Yes	✅ Yes	When you want to update your local branch directly
git merge	❌ No	✅ Yes (if another branch is already fetched)	When merging fetched changes manually
Command Summary
git fetch origin master
Fetches the latest changes from the remote master branch, but doesn’t merge them into your current branch.

git branch -a
Lists all branches:

Local branches

Remote branches (like remotes/origin/master, etc.)

git merge origin/master
Merges the changes from origin/master (fetched version of remote branch) into your current branch.

Scenario: Max Pushed a New Story
You’re told:

Max just pushed another story to remote. Let's retrieve that using the second approach.

You should:
git pull origin master
This brings all Max’s changes from the remote master and merges them into your local master.

How to Check: “What’s the name of the new story Max added?”
After pulling the changes:
ls
This lists the files in your local directory.

The new story will show up as a new file (e.g., fox-and-grapes.txt or story3.txt).

You can also check recent commits:
git log --name-only
This will show commit messages and the names of files added or modified.

