What is a Fork?
A fork is a personal copy of someone else’s repository on your Git hosting account (like GitHub).

When you fork a repo:

You create a copy of the original repository under your account.

You can make any changes without affecting the original project.

Later, you can request your changes to be merged back.

Used when:

You want to contribute to someone else’s project.

You don’t have direct write access to their repository.

Fork vs Clone
Action	Meaning
Fork	Copy someone’s remote repo to your GitHub account
Clone	Copy a GitHub repo to your local system
How do unknown people contribute to open-source projects?
Most open-source projects don’t give direct write access to everyone. Instead, they follow this contribution workflow:

Open Source Contribution Workflow
Fork the repository
On GitHub: Click the Fork button at the top-right of the repo page.

Clone your forked repo
git clone https://github.com/your-username/project-name.git
cd project-name
Create a branch for your changes

git checkout -b new-feature
Make changes
Edit files, write code, fix bugs, etc.

Commit the changes
git add .
git commit -m "Added feature X or fixed bug Y"
Push the branch to your fork

git push origin new-feature
Create a Pull Request (PR)

Go to the original repository on GitHub.

Click Compare & pull request.

Explain your changes and submit the PR.

Wait for review and approval

Project maintainers will review your PR.

They may suggest changes or approve it.

Once approved, they merge your changes into the main repository.

Important Terms
Term	Description
PR (Pull Request)	A request to merge your changes into the original repo
Review	Maintainers check your code for bugs, style, and quality
Merge	Accepted PRs are merged into the project’s main branch
Contributor	Anyone who contributes to the project, even without full access
Summary
Task	Description
Fork	Create your own copy of the repo on GitHub
Clone	Copy the repo to your local computer
Pull Request (PR)	Propose changes to the original repo
Open Source Work	Fork → Clone → Branch → Code → PR → Review → Merge