What is git pull?
git pull is used to fetch and merge changes from a remote repository into your current local branch.

Example:
git pull origin master
origin → the name of the remote repository

master → the branch you are pulling from

It combines:

git fetch (downloads the latest code)

git merge (merges it with your local branch)

What is the difference between git pull and git clone?
Feature	git clone	git pull
Purpose	Copies the entire remote repo to your system	Syncs latest changes to your local repo
Use Case	Used once when starting a project	Used often to update code
Creates Folder	Yes (makes a new project folder)	No (works inside existing repo folder)
Command	git clone <repo_url>	git pull origin branch-name
Why shouldn’t Max push directly to the master branch?
The master (or main) branch should contain:

✅ Final, production-ready code

✅ Code that has been reviewed and approved

✅ No experimental or work-in-progress code

Pushing directly to master skips the review process and can:

Introduce bugs

Break the app for others

Cause conflicts

The Right Workflow (Team Collaboration)
Pull the latest master code:
git checkout master
git pull origin master
Create a feature branch:
git checkout -b add-fox-story
Work on changes and commit:
git add .
git commit -m "Added fox and grapes story"
Push the feature branch to remote:
git push origin add-fox-story
Create a Pull Request (PR) / Merge Request (MR) to master

Code is reviewed and approved

Code is merged into master

What is git push <remote_url>?
This command pushes your local commits to the remote repository at the given URL.

Example:
git push https://gitlab.com/username/myrepo.git master
But usually, we use:
git remote add origin <url>
git push origin master
So <remote_url> is typically named origin and reused.

What is a PR (Pull Request)?
A Pull Request (PR) or Merge Request (MR) is:

A request to merge your changes from one branch (usually a feature branch) into another (usually master or main).

In GitLab:
You push your branch

Then you click "Create Merge Request"

A PR helps teams:

Review each other's code

Suggest improvements

Catch bugs before merging

What is "Approve"?
"Approve" means:

A teammate or reviewer has reviewed the code changes in the PR/MR and confirms that it's correct and ready to merge.

You usually need at least one approval before merging to master.

What is "Merge PR request"?
After a PR is approved, it can be merged — this means:

The changes from your feature branch are added into the master branch

The feature branch can then be deleted

You usually click a button like "Merge" or "Merge after approval" in GitHub or GitLab.

Summary Table
Term	Meaning
git pull	Downloads and merges changes from remote branch
git clone	Creates a full local copy of a remote repository
Direct Push to Master	Not recommended; should be protected and used only after review
git push <url>	Push local commits to remote repository at the specified URL
PR (Pull Request)	A request to merge feature code into master after review
Approve	Reviewer confirms code is correct and ready
Merge PR	Combines the feature branch into the master/main branch