What is a Git branch?
A Git branch is simply a pointer to a specific commit in the Git history. It helps you work on different features or fixes without affecting the main codebase.

Think of a branch like a "workspace" or a "timeline" of changes.

By default, Git creates a branch called main (or master) when you start a repo.

You can create multiple branches for different features, bug fixes, experiments, etc.

If we create a branch, is it a directory or file?
No, a branch is not a directory or file in your Linux file system.

Branches are stored as metadata inside the .git/ directory in the repo. Specifically, they’re just pointers to commits in the .git/refs/heads/ folder.

That’s why you don’t see a new folder or file when you create a branch.

Important Git Commands Explained
git branch
Lists all the local branches in the repo.

Highlights the current branch with *.

Example:
git branch
Output:
* main
  feature-login
  bugfix-header
git checkout -b <branchname>
Creates a new branch and immediately switches to it.

Example:
git checkout -b feature-login
Equivalent to:
git branch feature-login
git checkout feature-login
git checkout <branchname>
Switches to an existing branch.

Example:
git checkout main
git log --name-only
Shows the commit history, and lists only the file names that were changed in each commit.

Example:
git log --name-only
git show
Shows details of the latest commit on the current branch.

Includes author, date, commit message, and what exactly was changed.

Example:
git show
git status
Shows the current state of your working directory and staging area:

Files changed

Files staged

Untracked files

Example:
git status
git commit -m "commit message"
Commits only the files that are staged using git add.

Example:
git add file1.txt
git commit -m "Added feature A"
git commit -am "commit message"
A shortcut for:

Adding and committing tracked files in one step.

Only works for already tracked files (not new files).

Example:
git commit -am "Fixed bug in login flow"
Bonus Tips
To see remote branches too:
git branch -a
To delete a local branch:
git branch -d branchname
To see detailed commit history:
git log --oneline --graph --all

git log --graph --decorate
This command shows your Git commit history in a visual tree format, with some decorations (branch and tag names).

git log: Shows the commit history.

--graph: Adds an ASCII graph showing the branch and merge history.

--decorate: Shows branch names, tags, and HEAD pointers next to the commit.

Example Output:
* commit 7d5b6c3 (HEAD -> main, origin/main)
| Author: Your Name
| Date:   Sat Apr 13 2025
|
|     Added login API
|
* commit b1e6f72 (feature-branch)
| Author: Your Name
| Date:   Fri Apr 12 2025
|
|     Initial commit
Here:

* indicates a commit

HEAD -> main means you're currently on the main branch

The vertical bars | and slashes / show merges and branches

Useful Add-ons:
You can combine with --oneline to make it more readable:
git log --oneline --graph --decorate --all
This gives you a clean, full tree view of all branches — great for visualizing merges and history.
